README.md, before:

# Awesome Git Hooks [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of awesome [Git hooks](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks)

Git Hooks are scripts that run automatically every time a particular event occurs in a Git repository.

## Contents
- [Useful Git Hooks scripts](#useful-git-hooks-scripts)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Projects](#projects)
- [Articles](#articles)
- [Video Tutorials](#video-tutorials)
- [Support](#support)

## Useful Git Hooks scripts

- [pre-commit](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-commit) - This hook is called before obtaining the proposed commit message.
- [prepare-commit-msg](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/prepare-commit-msg) - Called after receiving the default commit message, just prior to firing up the commit message editor.
- [pre-receive](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-receive) - This is called on the remote repo just before updating the pushed refs.
- [commit-msg](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/commit-msg) - Can be used to adjust the message after it has been edited in order to ensure conformity to a standard or to reject based on any criteria.
- [pre-push](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-push) - Called prior to a push to a remote. In addition to the parameters, additional information, separated by a space is passed in through stdin in the form of `<local ref> <local sha1> <remote ref> <remote sha1>`.
- [pre-auto-gc](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-auto-gc) - Is used to do some checks before automatically cleaning repos. 
- [pre-rebase](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-rebase) - Called when rebasing a branch. Mainly used to halt the rebase if it is not desirable.
- [applypatch-msg](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/applypatch-msg) - Can edit the commit message file and is often used to verify or actively format a patch's message to a project's standards.
- [post-receive](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/post-receive) - This is run on the remote when pushing after the all refs have been updated. It does not take parameters, but receives info through stdin in the form of `<old-value> <new-value> <ref-name>`. 
- [post-rewrite](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/post-rewrite) - This is called when git commands are rewriting already committed data.

## Tools

- [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) - Git hooks made easy.
- [Komondor](https://github.com/orta/Komondor) - Git Hooks for Swift projects.
- [Quickhook](https://github.com/dirk/quickhook/) - Faster Git hook (pre-commit, etc.) runner.
- [git-hooks](https://github.com/icefox/git-hooks/) - A tool to manage project, user, and global Git hooks.
- [overcommit](https://github.com/brigade/overcommit/) - A fully configurable and extendable Git hook manager.
- [Grunt GitHooks](https://github.com/wecodemore/grunt-githooks) - Setup, manage and update your hooks with Grunt. Can be used with all languages, supports templates.
- [Autohook](https://github.com/nkantar/Autohook) - A very, very small Git hook manager with focus on automation.
- [Githooks](https://github.com/rycus86/githooks) - Auto-install Git hook, that supports hooks in any language checked into Git and also shared repos.
- [Hooks](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-hooks) - A command line git hook management tool.
- [Lefthook](https://github.com/Arkweid/lefthook) - Fast and powerful Git hooks manager for any type of projects. 
- [pre-commit](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit) - A framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.

## Projects 

- [Lolcommits](https://github.com/mroth/lolcommits) - Takes a snapshot with your webcam every time you git commit code, and archives a lolcat style image with it.
- [Podmena](https://github.com/bmwant/podmena) - Enhance your commit messages adding random emoji to it.
- [Git Hooks Manager](https://github.com/icefox/git-hooks) - A tool to manage project, user, and global Git hooks for multiple Git repositories.
- [Git::Hooks](https://github.com/gnustavo/Git-Hooks) - A framework for implementing Git (and Gerrit) hooks.
- [git-pre-commit-hook](https://pypi.org/project/git-pre-commit-hook/) - Hook that blocks bad commits. Useful for Python-development.
- [App::GitHooks](https://metacpan.org/pod/App::GitHooks) -  A modular and easy to configure git hooks framework, supporting many plugins. 
- [Jig](https://pythonhosted.org/jig/) - A pre-commit hook on steroids.
- [GitPHPHooks](https://github.com/wecodemore/GitPHPHooks) - Write your hooks in PHP, manage and organize them on a task and project level. Has an additional Hooks library on GitHub.
- [git-hooks-php](https://github.com/BernardoSilva/git-hooks-php) - Git hooks for PHP based projects.
- [commandbox-githooks](https://github.com/elpete/commandbox-githooks) - Git hooks for CommandBox CFML based projects.
- [hooks4git](https://pypi.org/project/hooks4git/) - A simple, flexible and language agnostic git hook management approach.

## Articles

- [Official Documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks)
- [Git Hooks (Part I): The Basics](http://omerkatz.com/blog/2013/2/15/git-hooks-part-1-the-basics)
- [Git Hooks (Part II): Implementing Git Hooks using Python](http://omerkatz.com/blog/2013/5/23/git-hooks-part-2-implementing-git-hooks-using-python)
- [Atlassian Git Hooks tutorial](https://ru.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-hooks)
- [Tips for using Git pre commit hook](https://codeinthehole.com/tips/tips-for-using-a-git-pre-commit-hook/)
- [Use a boostrap shell script to use Git Hooks in Mac with PowerShell and with IntelliJ](https://wilsonmar.github.io/git-hooks/)
- [githooks.com](https://githooks.com)
- [How To Use Git Hooks To Automate Development and Deployment Tasks](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-git-hooks-to-automate-development-and-deployment-tasks)
- [Automate your workflow with git hooks
](https://medium.com/backticks-tildes/how-to-automate-your-git-workflow-with-git-hooks-c905296c49bc)
- [Automate your development workflow](https://medium.com/the-andela-way/git-hooks-beautifully-automate-tasks-stages-bfb29f42fea1)
- [Deploying websites with a Git hook](http://ryanflorence.com/deploying-websites-with-a-tiny-git-hook/) 
- [The missing Git hooks documentation](https://longair.net/blog/2011/04/09/missing-git-hooks-documentation/)

## Video Tutorials 

- [Introduction to Git Hooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8-JL6NOTZOw)
- [Git hooks, practical uses (yes, even on Windows)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fMYv6-SZsSo)
- [Life’s better with Git hooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RG26-Iozg70)
- [Husky and the Git Hooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpxkBgd8yq8)

## Support

If you have a question, find a bug, or just want to say hi, please open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/issues/new). If you want to contribute, please read the [guide](./contributing.md).

## License

[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, [Islam Temirbek](https://aitemr.github.io) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.

Commit message:

Adds "commit-colors" to the list.
Commit colors is a project that displays a color swatch in your terminal
each time you author a commit. The color displayed is the hexadecimal
color that corresponds to your truncated commit ID.

README.md, after:

# Awesome Git Hooks [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of awesome [Git hooks](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks)

Git Hooks are scripts that run automatically every time a particular event occurs in a Git repository.

## Contents
- [Useful Git Hooks scripts](#useful-git-hooks-scripts)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Projects](#projects)
- [Articles](#articles)
- [Video Tutorials](#video-tutorials)
- [Support](#support)

## Useful Git Hooks scripts

- [pre-commit](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-commit) - This hook is called before obtaining the proposed commit message.
- [prepare-commit-msg](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/prepare-commit-msg) - Called after receiving the default commit message, just prior to firing up the commit message editor.
- [pre-receive](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-receive) - This is called on the remote repo just before updating the pushed refs.
- [commit-msg](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/commit-msg) - Can be used to adjust the message after it has been edited in order to ensure conformity to a standard or to reject based on any criteria.
- [pre-push](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-push) - Called prior to a push to a remote. In addition to the parameters, additional information, separated by a space is passed in through stdin in the form of `<local ref> <local sha1> <remote ref> <remote sha1>`.
- [pre-auto-gc](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-auto-gc) - Is used to do some checks before automatically cleaning repos. 
- [pre-rebase](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/pre-rebase) - Called when rebasing a branch. Mainly used to halt the rebase if it is not desirable.
- [applypatch-msg](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/applypatch-msg) - Can edit the commit message file and is often used to verify or actively format a patch's message to a project's standards.
- [post-receive](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/post-receive) - This is run on the remote when pushing after the all refs have been updated. It does not take parameters, but receives info through stdin in the form of `<old-value> <new-value> <ref-name>`. 
- [post-rewrite](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/tree/master/post-rewrite) - This is called when git commands are rewriting already committed data.

## Tools

- [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) - Git hooks made easy.
- [Komondor](https://github.com/orta/Komondor) - Git Hooks for Swift projects.
- [Quickhook](https://github.com/dirk/quickhook/) - Faster Git hook (pre-commit, etc.) runner.
- [git-hooks](https://github.com/icefox/git-hooks/) - A tool to manage project, user, and global Git hooks.
- [overcommit](https://github.com/brigade/overcommit/) - A fully configurable and extendable Git hook manager.
- [Grunt GitHooks](https://github.com/wecodemore/grunt-githooks) - Setup, manage and update your hooks with Grunt. Can be used with all languages, supports templates.
- [Autohook](https://github.com/nkantar/Autohook) - A very, very small Git hook manager with focus on automation.
- [Githooks](https://github.com/rycus86/githooks) - Auto-install Git hook, that supports hooks in any language checked into Git and also shared repos.
- [Hooks](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-hooks) - A command line git hook management tool.
- [Lefthook](https://github.com/Arkweid/lefthook) - Fast and powerful Git hooks manager for any type of projects. 
- [pre-commit](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit) - A framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.

## Projects 

- [Lolcommits](https://github.com/mroth/lolcommits) - Takes a snapshot with your webcam every time you git commit code, and archives a lolcat style image with it.
- [Podmena](https://github.com/bmwant/podmena) - Enhance your commit messages adding random emoji to it.
- [Git Hooks Manager](https://github.com/icefox/git-hooks) - A tool to manage project, user, and global Git hooks for multiple Git repositories.
- [Git::Hooks](https://github.com/gnustavo/Git-Hooks) - A framework for implementing Git (and Gerrit) hooks.
- [git-pre-commit-hook](https://pypi.org/project/git-pre-commit-hook/) - Hook that blocks bad commits. Useful for Python-development.
- [App::GitHooks](https://metacpan.org/pod/App::GitHooks) -  A modular and easy to configure git hooks framework, supporting many plugins. 
- [Jig](https://pythonhosted.org/jig/) - A pre-commit hook on steroids.
- [GitPHPHooks](https://github.com/wecodemore/GitPHPHooks) - Write your hooks in PHP, manage and organize them on a task and project level. Has an additional Hooks library on GitHub.
- [git-hooks-php](https://github.com/BernardoSilva/git-hooks-php) - Git hooks for PHP based projects.
- [commandbox-githooks](https://github.com/elpete/commandbox-githooks) - Git hooks for CommandBox CFML based projects.
- [hooks4git](https://pypi.org/project/hooks4git/) - A simple, flexible and language agnostic git hook management approach.
- [Commit Colors](https://github.com/sparkbox/commit-colors) - See a color swatch in your terminal every time you author a commit.

## Articles

- [Official Documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks)
- [Git Hooks (Part I): The Basics](http://omerkatz.com/blog/2013/2/15/git-hooks-part-1-the-basics)
- [Git Hooks (Part II): Implementing Git Hooks using Python](http://omerkatz.com/blog/2013/5/23/git-hooks-part-2-implementing-git-hooks-using-python)
- [Atlassian Git Hooks tutorial](https://ru.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-hooks)
- [Tips for using Git pre commit hook](https://codeinthehole.com/tips/tips-for-using-a-git-pre-commit-hook/)
- [Use a boostrap shell script to use Git Hooks in Mac with PowerShell and with IntelliJ](https://wilsonmar.github.io/git-hooks/)
- [githooks.com](https://githooks.com)
- [How To Use Git Hooks To Automate Development and Deployment Tasks](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-git-hooks-to-automate-development-and-deployment-tasks)
- [Automate your workflow with git hooks
](https://medium.com/backticks-tildes/how-to-automate-your-git-workflow-with-git-hooks-c905296c49bc)
- [Automate your development workflow](https://medium.com/the-andela-way/git-hooks-beautifully-automate-tasks-stages-bfb29f42fea1)
- [Deploying websites with a Git hook](http://ryanflorence.com/deploying-websites-with-a-tiny-git-hook/) 
- [The missing Git hooks documentation](https://longair.net/blog/2011/04/09/missing-git-hooks-documentation/)

## Video Tutorials 

- [Introduction to Git Hooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8-JL6NOTZOw)
- [Git hooks, practical uses (yes, even on Windows)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fMYv6-SZsSo)
- [Life’s better with Git hooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RG26-Iozg70)
- [Husky and the Git Hooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpxkBgd8yq8)

## Support

If you have a question, find a bug, or just want to say hi, please open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/aitemr/awesome-git-hooks/issues/new). If you want to contribute, please read the [guide](./contributing.md).

## License

[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, [Islam Temirbek](https://aitemr.github.io) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.
